Yesterday began with some
devastating news with regard
to our economic crisis.
But I'm pleased to say it
ended on a more positive note.
In the morning, we
received yet another round
of alarming employment
figures --
the worst in more
than 30 years.
Another 600,000 jobs
were lost in January.
We've now lost more
than 3.6 million jobs
since this recession began.
But by the evening, Democrats
and Republicans came together
in the Senate and
responded appropriately
to the urgency this
moment demands.
In the midst of our
greatest economic crisis
since the Great Depression,
the American people were hoping
that Congress would begin
to confront the great
challenges we face.
That was, after all, what
last November's election was
all about.
Legislation of such magnitude
deserves the scrutiny
that it's received
over the last month,
and it will receive more
in the days to come.
But we can't afford to
make perfect the enemy
of the absolutely necessary.
The scale and scope
of this plan is right.
And the time for action is now.
Because if we don't move
swiftly to put this plan
in motion, our economic
crisis could become a
national catastrophe.
Millions of Americans will
lose their jobs, their homes,
and their health care.
Millions more will have to
put their dreams on hold.
Let's be clear: We
can't expect relief
from the tired old theories
that, in eight short years,
doubled the national
debt, threw our economy
into a tailspin, and led us
into this mess in
the first place.
We can't rely on
a losing formula
that offers only tax
cuts as the answer
to all our problems while
ignoring our fundamental
economic challenges -- the
crushing cost of health care
or the inadequate state of so
many schools; our addiction
to foreign oil or our crumbling
roads, bridges, and levees.
The American people know that
our challenges are great.
They don't expect
Democratic solutions
or Republican solutions --
they expect American solutions.
From the beginning, this
recovery plan has had
at its core a simple
idea: Let's put Americans
to work doing the work
America needs done.
It will save or create
more than 3 million jobs
over the next two years,
all across the country --
16,000 in Maine, nearly
80,000 in Indiana --
almost all of them in
the private sector,
and all of them jobs that
help us recover today,
and prosper tomorrow.
Jobs that upgrade
classrooms and laboratories
in 10,000 schools nationwide --
at least 485 in
Florida alone --
and train an army of
teachers in math and science.
Jobs that modernize
our health care system,
not only saving us billions of
dollars, but countless lives.
Jobs that construct a
smart electric grid,
connect every corner
of the country
to the information
superhighway,
double our capacity to
generate renewable energy,
and grow the economy
of tomorrow.
Jobs that rebuild our crumbling
roads, bridges and levees
and dams, so that the
tragedies of New Orleans
and Minneapolis
never happen again.
It includes immediate
tax relief
for our struggling middle
class in places like Ohio,
where 4.5 million workers
will receive a tax cut
of up to $1,000.
It protects health insurance
and provides unemployment
insurance
for those who've
lost their jobs.
And it helps our states
and communities avoid
painful tax hikes or layoffs
for our teachers, nurses,
and first responders.
That's what is at
stake with this plan:
putting Americans back to work,
creating transformative
economic change, and making a
down payment on the American
Dream that serves our children
and our children's children
for generations to come.
Americans across this
country are struggling,
and they are watching
to see if we're equal
to the task before us.
Let's show them that we are.
And let's do whatever it
takes to keep the promise
of America alive in our time.
Thank you.